---
categories: projects
layout: post
published: true
title: Insula
invert-nav: false
date: '2015-07-08'
description: 'ecology, haptic, VR'
slug: insula
jpg: 016insula/insula_body
index: 16
thumbnail: thumbnail-insula.jpg
banner-align: top
video-pause: false
play-once: false
video_mute: false
panorama-longitude-speed: 0.01
panorama-user-control: false
---




> No man is an island / Entire of itself

John Donne

> ...the unit of survival is the organism plus environment. We are learning by bitter experience that the organism which destroys its environment destroys itself.

Gregory Bateson

> In a wider sense, humans and nature share the same body. 

Chen Xia and Martin Schönfeld, “A Daoist response to climate change,” in the Journal of Global Ethics, August 2011, 202

> Love the world as your own self; then you can truly care for all things.

Lao Tzu, Tao Te Ching: Chapter 13


Seachange is a project about transformation inspired by ecological thinking and the emphasis on a harmonious reciprocal relationship between heaven and earth found in Daoism. The project explores the creative agency of the individual human and the group and our connection to the wider ecosystem and data on the climate crisis through Virtual Reality and haptic sensing, storytelling, live events and site specific installations.

Kate Genevieve will develop her Virtual Reality work with touch and multi sensory illusion that invites the audience member into intimate reality-shifting choreographies during a three week residency at the [Flux Laboratory](http://www.fluxlaboratory.com/en/home) in Geneva May 2017. This residency involves collaborating with scientists from Campus Biotech to explore how Virtual Reality and Augmented Reality can be used as tools for investigating interpersonal relationship. This project opened with [open( system )](http://brightondigitalfestival.co.uk/event/open-system/) and will be open to residents in the Flux Laboratory and the public during May. Kate will document the interdisciplinary process and debates through image, writing and sound.

This project is Kate Genevieve’s PHD creative practice project at the University of Sussex on transformation and how we dance with, integrate and act upon information from the outside world.



_The horizon, the sea, the island: it depends from what perspective you project. From space, planet earth appears a wild island paradise of life against the empty void. 

_The journey calls: from the uniquely personal to the universal, through the black night of machine terrors and the song of wild distant stars. A journey to meet what is real. 
You are not alone. Across the waves: a beacon’s flashing…_
_

image credit: [Christian Krupa](https://vimeo.com/127835459)
