---
layout: post
title: who we are
date: 
  - 2015-04-13T12:00:00.000Z
  - "Mon Apr 13 2015 13:00:00 GMT+0100 (BST)"
categories: about
slug: vision
panorama: pano2.jpg
"panorama-longitude-speed": 0.01
"panorama-user-control": false
published: true
"invert-nav": false
---

 <b>C H R Θ M A</b> is constantly mutating. It was founded by <a href="http://cargocollective.com/kategenevieve" target="_blank">Kate Genevieve</a> in 2010. At present, it is run as a partnership between Kate Genevieve and Paul Hayes with a host of associates and an offshoot exploring new ways of sensing with performance artist [Rachel Blackman](http://stillpointtheatre.co.uk/) as [C H R Θ M A and Stillpoint](http://feelingsensing.tumblr.com/). 
 
<a href="http://cargocollective.com/kategenevieve" target="_blank">Kate Genevieve</a> 
Kate is an artist and researcher at the University of Sussex. Her projects explore the flexible relationship between the physical and the virtual, the real world and imagined ones. The work brings experimental performance together with immersive and interactive technologies, so that the audience’s perception, bodies and movement become a vital part of the action. 

C H R Θ M A was formed to creatively explore and question the implications technology and science have on how we understand ourselves as humans in the ecosphere. Inspired by cybernetics and ecological thinking, C H R Θ M A projects collaborate across disciplines, bringing in diverse perspectives from dance to architecture, magic to neuroscience, anthropology to physics. 

Kate is working on a practice-based PHD at Sussex University, with supervision at the Media School and the Sackler Centre for Consciousness Science. Her research uses virtual reality and immersive environments to investigate multi-sensory experience, embodiment and non-verbal means of communication.

Kate lectures on digital art, creative media and animation at the Universities of Sussex and Brighton.

Paul Hayes 

Paul is a creative programmer, artist and game maker. Paul is the technical lead on C H R Θ M A's interactive projects. An experienced programmer, working as project lead at Plug-in Media for 5 years on various BAFTA winning projects. He released his first independent game "Dead Of Night" an immersive game for Android and iOS in the spring of 2014. Paul is a specialist in Unity 3D and Oculus Rift. He developed “Dark Ride” for the Rift, a live altered reality miniature dark ride with animation studio Persistent Peril and Gather and Conjunction at C H R Θ M A. He has collaborated with Seb Lee Delisle on the large scale interactive digital fireworks display "Pixel pyros" and built the wi-fi scanning element of Wes Goatley's Wireless-Fidelity, a sound trail for devices that sonify surrounding wireless networks. 

Committed to exploring the potentials of creative thinking and programming, he mentors young people at Brighton's Coder Dojo and runs workshops at Brigton's Maker club. He also creates the live voting system for the Tech4Good awards. 

Paul's experiments, libraries and tutorials are available on github https://github.com/paulhayes. 


 
 