---
layout: post
title: About
date: "2015-01-05"
categories: about
slug: about
video: veda_tunnel_gold
poster: 00about/veda_tunnel_gold.jpg
published: true
"panorama-longitude-speed": 0.01
"panorama-user-control": false
"invert-nav": true
description: ""
"splash-description": ""
"index-image": ""
jpg: ""
png: ""
panorama: ""
"panorama-poster": ""
---









<span class="chroma">CHRΘMA</span> creatively investigates the flexible relationship between the physical and the virtual, the real world and imagined ones. Inspired by cybernetics and ecological thinking, projects collaborate across disciplines, bringing in diverse perspectives from dance to architecture, magic to neuroscience, anthropology to physics. Work shows in theatre settings, art galleries, outdoors and unusual site-specific installations. Projects combine performance and narrative together with immersive and interactive technologies: the audience’s perception, bodies and movement are vital to the action.

<span class="chroma">CHRΘMA</span> was formed to creatively explore and question the implications technology and science have on how we understand ourselves as humans in the ecosphere. <span class="chroma">CHRΘMA</span> was founded by <a href="https://twitter.com/kategenevieve" target="_blank" class="green" >Kate Genevieve</a> in 2010 and has been mutating ever since. Recent projects have shown at the Brighton Dome, London’s Science Museum, Brighton Digital Festival, SCANZ 2013, Oxford’s Light Night, and FACT Liverpool. As well as making projects, <span class="chroma">CHRΘMA</span> runs open labs and research, public events and workshops on the potentials that creative technologies have for transforming how we sense, communicate and receive information about the earth.

[TEDxBrighton Talk on CHRΘMA](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4os_yd51dYY)