---
layout: post
title: who we are
date: "2015-01-04"
categories: about
slug: "who-we-are"
video: veda_tunnel_gold
poster: 00about/veda_tunnel_gold.jpg
published: true
"invert-nav": false
"panorama-longitude-speed": 0.01
"panorama-user-control": false
---


<span class="chroma">CHRΘMA</span> was formed to creatively explore and question the implications technology and science have on how we understand ourselves as humans in the ecosphere. Our projects explore the flexible relationship between the physical and the virtual, the real world and imagined ones. The work brings experimental performance together with immersive and interactive technologies, so that the audience’s perception, bodies and movement become a vital part of the action. Inspired by cybernetics and ecological thinking, <span class="chroma">CHRΘMA</span> projects collaborate across disciplines, bringing in diverse perspectives from dance to architecture, magic to neuroscience, anthropology to physics.

<span class="chroma">CHRΘMA</span> was founded by <a href="https://twitter.com/kategenevieve" target="_blank" class="green" >Kate Genevieve</a> in 2010 and has been mutating ever since. At present, it is run as a partnership between Kate Genevieve and Paul Hayes with a host of associates and an offshoot exploring new ways of sensing with performance artist [Rachel Blackman](http://stillpointtheatre.co.uk/ "green") as [<span class="chroma">CHRΘMA</span> and Stillpoint](http://feelingsensing.tumblr.com/ "green").

### <a href="https://twitter.com/kategenevieve" target="_blank" class="green" >Kate Genevieve</a>

Kate is an artist and researcher at the University of Sussex. She is working on a practice-based PHD at Sussex University, with supervision at the Media School and the Sackler Centre for Consciousness Science. Her research uses virtual reality and immersive environments to investigate multi-sensory experience, embodiment and non-verbal means of communication.

Kate lectures on digital art, creative media and animation at the Universities of Sussex and Brighton.


### <a href="https://twitter.com/paul_hayes" target="_blank" class="green" >Paul Hayes</a>

Paul is a creative programmer, artist and game maker. Paul is the technical lead on <span class="chroma">CHRΘMA</span>'s interactive projects. An experienced programmer, working as project lead at Plug-in Media for 5 years on various BAFTA winning projects. He released his first independent game "Dead Of Night" an immersive game for Android and iOS in the spring of 2014. Paul is a specialist in Unity 3D and Oculus Rift. He developed “Dark Ride” for the Rift, a live altered reality miniature dark ride with animation studio Persistent Peril and Gather and Conjunction at <span class="chroma">CHRΘMA</span>. He has collaborated with Seb Lee Delisle on the large scale interactive digital fireworks display "Pixel pyros" and built the wi-fi scanning element of Wes Goatley's Wireless-Fidelity, a sound trail for devices that sonify surrounding wireless networks.

Committed to exploring the potentials of creative thinking and programming, he mentors young people at Brighton's Coder Dojo and runs workshops at Brigton's Maker club. He also creates the live voting system for the Tech4Good awards.

Paul's experiments, libraries and tutorials are available on github <a href="https://github.com/paulhayes" target="_blank" class="green" >https://github.com/paulhayes</a>.
